h1. What is this

Result of testing out JavaCL (and ScalaCL / ScalaCL-plugin) implemented in Scala.

Basically a simple scene rendering (ray-tracing) where the scene is defined in the OpenCL-program.

Quite useless, but works great as example and benchmark.

h1. Prerequisites

h2. Java

Downloadable from Oracle or already preinstalled. Google for 'jdk <your operating system>'. Your operating system is probably windows if you're unsure what it is. If you've never heard about an operating system it will probably be mac.

h2. SBT

Build tool of choice for a scala generation. See http://code.google.com/p/simple-build-tool/ for instructions.

h2. OpenCL

Since this is very platform and graphics card dependent this will vary. If you don't find the information you need below try out "ATI":http://developer.amd.com/gpu/ATIStreamSDK/Pages/default.aspx for ATI cards or "Nvidia":http://www.nvidia.com/object/cuda_opencl_new.html for Nvidia. Noone using anything else; right?!

h3. Mac OS X

Post 10.6 (Snow Leopard) this is included.

h4. Linux

h5. ATI + Ubuntu

Download and unpack correct tar-balls ATI Stream SDK and ICD registration from "ATI Stream":http://developer.amd.com/gpu/atistreamsdk/pages/default.aspx.

* Add the library path: 'export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:<ATI Stream sdk>/lib/<platform>'
* Copy ICD registration directory under 'etc' to '/etc'

PS: Had to install X with ATI OpenGL drivers as well on a server machine (although thats probably a little over the board)

h5. Nvidia

* Install package 'python-pyopencl'; it seem to retrieve everything neccessary: 'sudo apt-get install python-pyopencl'

h1. Usage

Start 'sbt' and use the 'run' and select among the main-classes detected:

|*Name*|*Description*|
|...SceneRenderToDevNull|Scene rendered with results thrown away. Used to measure platform performance|
|...SceneRenderToText|Scene rendered to text. Simple & fast|
|...SceneRenderToSwing|Scene rendered to swing frame (theoretically horrendously slow, but not so in practice)|
|...PiCalculationTest|Stupid π-calculation test that is not very accurate since most OpenCL-implementations does not support double precision|

